PHP 5 in maintenance mode (#14248)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/setup_overview/compatibility_requirements/php.md

| <span id="support-ga">General Availability (GA)</span> |  Full implementation of all features. Full support for new features, bug & security fixes.                                                                                    |
| <span id="support-maintenance">Maintenance</span>      |  Full implementation of existing features. Does not receive new features. Support for bug & security fixes only.                                                              |
| <span id="support-legacy">Legacy</span>                |  Legacy implementation. May have limited function, but no maintenance provided. [Contact our customer support team for special requests.][2] |
| <span id="support-eol">End-of-life (EOL)</span>        |  No support.                                                                                                                                                                  |

PHP APM supports the following PHP versions:

<div class="alert alert-info">
<strong>Note:</strong>

> PHP 5.x is fully supported until version 0.75.0. It is now in maintenance mode and will be supported with security and important bug fixes until December 31, 2023.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PHP 5.x is fully supported until version 0.75.0. It is now in maintenance mode and supported with security and important bug fixes until December 31, 2023.
```

<br>

> If you are using PHP 5.x version in your application and have a feature request which is critical for your business needs, please contact us at <a href="https://www.datadoghq.com/support/">Datadog Support</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using PHP 5.x version in your application and have a feature request which is critical for your business needs, contact [Datadog Support][2].
```

<br>

> We recommend using <a href="https://www.php.net/supported-versions.php">officially supported versions</a> of PHP, especially 7.4, 8.0, and 8.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's recommended to use [officially supported versions][9] of PHP, especially 7.4, 8.0, and 8.1.
```

#### Deep call stacks on PHP 5

The call stack is limited on PHP 5. See the [deep call stack troubleshooting page][5] for more details.

### Generators

Instrumenting [generators][6] is not supported on PHP 5 and PHP 7.

### PCNTL

Datadog does not offer support for tracing processes forked using [pcntl][7]. When a call to `pcntl_fork` is detected, tracing is disabled in the forked process. The main process can still be traced.

If the application invokes `pcntl_unshare(CLONE_NEWUSER);` and the tracer is installed, the application fatally crashes. This happens because `unshare` with `CLONE_NEWUSER` requires the process [not to be threaded][8], while the PHP tracer uses a separate thread to send traces to the Datadog Agent without blocking the main process.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-php
[2]: https://www.datadoghq.com/support/
[3]: /help
[4]: https://pecl.php.net/package/mongo
[5]: /tracing/troubleshooting/php_5_deep_call_stacks
[6]: https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.generators.overview.php
[7]: https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.pcntl.php

> [8]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/unshare.2.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[8]: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/unshare.2.html
[9]: https://www.php.net/supported-versions.php
```
